This document discusses the kinetics of neutralizing antibody development and the magnitude and durability of the neutralizing antibody response in humans after SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study uses sequential serum samples from 65 individuals with real-time quantitative PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV -2 infection and 31 seropositive healthcare workers to examine the kinetics of neutralizing antibodies development and the durability of the neutralizing antibodies response. The study shows that the magnitude of the neutralizing antibody reaction is dependent on disease severity, with some individuals with high peak infective dose maintaining neutralizing antibody titres >1,000 at >60d POS, while others with modest neutralizing antibody titre are transient. The study has important implications for the use of antibody testing and antibody protection against reinfection with SARS-CoV, and may suggest that vaccine boosters are required to provide long-lasting protection.
The kinetics of antibody development against SARS-CoV-2 antigens was studied in a cohort of 65 individuals. The kinetics of antibody response were compared with neutralizing antibody potency using a surrogate viral inhibition assay. The average time to detectable neutralization was 14.3 d POS (range 359 d). The average time for neutralizing activity to be detected was 14.3d POS (range 359d). The magnitude of the neutralizing antibody response at peak neutralization was significantly higher in the severity 4/5 group, but the mean time taken to measure detectable neutralizing antibody titres and the mean time to reach peak neutralization did not differ between the two groups. The longevity of the neutralizing antibody responses was also studied.
The kinetics of the neutralizing antibody response in SARS-CoV-2 infection was studied in a cohort of 31 seropositive 6 HCWs from GSTFT. The peak ID50 for each individual, and ID50 at the final timepoint collected, showed a decline in neutralizing antibodies regardless of disease severity. The decline in neutralizing antibodies was mirrored in the reduction in IgG-binding titres and also IgM and IgA binding to S glycoprotein and RBD. The magnitude of the decline in neutralizing antibody titres reported here is similar to that observed in several newly reported pre-prints. Further follow-up in these longitudinal cohorts is required to determine whether the neutralizing antibody decline will continue on a downward trajectory or whether the neutralizing antibody titre's will plateau to a steady state. Class-switched IgG memory B cells against S glycoprotein and RBd have been detected in blood of COVID-19 patients, showing that memory responses are generated during infection that have the potential to be activated to rapidly produce neutralizing antibodies on re-exposure to SARS-CoV.
This document presents a study of SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals collected up to 94 days post-infection. The study shows a typical antibody response after an acute viral infection, with a peak response detected 34 weeks post-infection, which then wanes. The neutralizing antibody titre required for protection from rein-fection and/or disease in humans is not yet understood. The study suggests that vaccines should aim to elicit titres similar to those generated by severe disease and boosting may be required to maintain neutralizing antibody titres. The study also shows that neutralizing antibody titre's may still be sufficient to provide protection from COVID-19 for a period of time, but further studies are required to determine the longevity of the neutralizing antibody response and the neutralizing antibody threshold for protection from reinfection and/or disease.
This document describes the SARS-CoV-2 antibody response in a HCW cohort at the Global Health Facility (GSFT) in London between March 13 and June 10, 2020. The HCW cohort was collected every 12 weeks from HCWs at GSTFT between March 13 and 10, 2020. Seropositivity to SARS-CoV–2 was determined using sera collected in April and early May 2020, using ELISA. The HCWs were considered seropositive if sera (diluted 1:50) gave an OD for IgG against both N protein and S glycoprotein that was fourfold above the negative control sera. The HCW severity classification was devised to mitigate underestimating disease severity in patients not for escalation above level one (ward-based) care. The N protein of SARS-CoV was expressed in Escherichia coli using autoinducing medium for 7 h at 37 C, and purified using immobilized metal affinity chromatography, size exclusion and heparin chromatography.
This document describes the use of Vero-E6 cells to detect SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibodies in COVID-19 patients. The virome was infected with SARS-CoV, and the virome was determined by plaque assay and live virus neutralization assay. The virome samples were prepared with a mixture of serum and authentic SARS-CoV and incubated with Vero-E6. The viromes were then fixed with 4% formalin and fixed with 3% milk. The virome then was blocked with 3% milk and an N protein-specific monoclonal antibody was added. The virome cells were then developed using TMB substrate and quenched using 2M H2SO4 before reading at 450 nm. The virome measurements were performed in duplicate and the duplicates used to calculate the ID50. Statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism v.8.4.2. The source data generated during the current study are available as supplementary information.
This document discusses the study of serum and saliva antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 spike antigens in COVID-19 patients. It also discusses the effects of SARS-CoV and influenza pandemics on immune responses. The authors declare no competing interests and have provided additional information, including extended data and supplementary information. The authors thank the anonymous reviewers for their contribution to the peer review of this work.
This is a Nature Research reporting summary for a study on antibody responses in individuals with a confirmed PCR SARS-CoV-2 infection. The form is for the statistical analysis of the study, the data collection, the analysis, the availability of data, the reporting for specific materials, systems, and methods, and the reporting for specific material, systems, and method. The form is updated on September 29, 2020.
The study was conducted in accordance with the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research and approved by the Risk and Assurance Committee at Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust. The serum was collected from consenting healthcare workers with expedited approval from the GSTFT Research & Development office, Occupational Health department and Medical director. The study protocol must also be provided in the manuscript.