This article discusses the effects of the tumor-promoting sesquiterpene lactone thapsigargin on intracellular Ca2+ stores in rat hepatocytes and other vertebrate cell types. It is found that the tumor promoter acts intracellularly, as it induces a rapid, dose-dependent release of stored Ca2+ in isolated rat liver microsomes. Thapsigargin pretreatment of microsomes blocks subsequent loading with 45Ca2, suggesting that its target is the ATP-dependent Ca21 pump of the endoplasmic reticulum. The inhibition of the endoplasmic reticulum form of the Ca2+-ATPase is highly selective, as it has little or no effect on the Ca2+ pumps of hepatocyte plasma membrane or of cardiac or skeletal muscles sarcoplasmic reticulum. The implications of this mechanism of action for the application of thapsigargin in the analysis of Ca21 homeostasis and possible forms of Ca21 control are discussed.
The study focuses on the effects of thapsigargin on intracellular Ca2+ storage and release processes. The study found that isolated rat hepatocytes displayed a rapid and dose-dependent increase in [Ca2+]j upon thapsigargin stimulation, with an ED50 value of around 80 nM. The study also found that thapsigargin discharges microsomal Ca2+, and that the inhibition of the mi-crosomal Ca2+-ATPase by thapsigargin was specific for Ca2+-stimulated ATPaseactivity, and was restricted to the microsomal form of the enzyme. The study also showed that the effect of thapsigar gin is independent of membrane fusion or communication, and that the intracellular Ca2+ response is slower than that elicited by hormonal stimulation, with no concomitant breakdown of inositolphos-pholipids with the production of inositol phosphates, and an initiation of [Ca2+i rise by release of intracellular seques-tered Ca2. The results of the study suggest that the mechanism of thapsigarkin is distinct from those of Ins-P3 and GTP.
Thapsigargin is a potent inhibitor of the Ca2+-activated microsomal ATPase, the presumptive Ca2lpump, indicating that the molecular target for thapsigargin is the Ca2+ accumulation system rather than the efflux system. The Ca2+ pump itself is not the primary mechanism of Ca2+ release, but a constitutive Ca2+ leak is responsible for the Ca2' discharge observed. The Ca2-ATPase of the ER differs significantly from the other isoforms, suggesting that the Ca2+ pump of the ER differs from the other isoforms. The physiological significance of these results is unclear, but modulation of pump activity could provide a means of tuning the intensity or duration of [Ca2+] elevation following intracellular Ca2+ discharge or extracellular Ca2+ influx. The identification of the ERCa2+-ATPase as the molecular site of thapsigargin action raises the important possibility that genetic lesions or onco-gene regulation of this Ca2+ pump should be considered as a candidate factor in multistage carcinogenesis.