This research article presents the functional characterization and structural modeling of synthetic polyester-degrading hydrolases from Thermomonospora curvata. The authors identified two genes coding for putative polyester hydrolases Tcur1278 and Tcur0390, which share 61% sequence identity with the Thermobifida flava enzymes. Mature proteins of Tcur1278and Tcur0390 were cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli TOP10. The optimal reaction temperature against p-nitrophenylbutyrate was determined at 60C and 55C, respectively, and the optimal pH for both enzymes was determined at pH 8.5. Tcur0390 showed a higher hydrolytic activity against poly(-caprolactone) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) nanoparticles compared to Tcur1278 at reaction temperatures up to 50C. The authors also reported the identification of two genes coding for the polyester hydrolases, the characterization of their cata-lytic properties and thermal stability, and the modification and analysis of their three-dimensional structures.
The sequence identity of T. curvata polyester hydrolases was studied using the molecular docking program GOLD version 5.1 and molecular dynamics simulations using Gro MACS 4.6. The enzyme was expressed in E. coli and purified using IMAC. The enzyme's hydrolytic activity was tested against pNPB at pH 8.5, and temperature was tested at 30C to 70C. The enzyme''s thermal stability was also investigated. The kinetics of the hydrolysis of pNPB and PET nanoparticles were analyzed. The enzyme'"s activity was found to be higher at 50C and 60C than at 50C and 55C. The kinetics of PET and PCL nanoparticles were also analyzed.
The authors identified two genes encoding the proteins Tcur1278 and Tcur0390 from T. curvata, a phylogenetically re-lated actinomycete that has been isolated from a similar habitat. The enzymes were cloned and expressed as active enzymes fused with a C-terminal His tag and purified by affinity chromatography. The authors found that the enzyme's surface properties were similar to those of their homologs from T. flava and that the enzyme'S surface properties were similar in the vicinity of the substrate-binding groove. The authors also found that the enzyme had a more flexible N-terminus than its homologs and that the enzyme had higher substrate affinity than its homologs. The optimal temperatures for pNPB hydrolysis by Tcur1278 or Tcur0390 were 60C and 55C, respectively, but both enzymes showed poor thermalstability at their optimal temperature.
The thermo- and structural stability of the polyester hydrolases Tcur1278 and Tcur0390 from Thermomonospora curvata were compared using molecular dynamics simulations. The backbone RMSD plots obtained by MD simulations indicated a more rigid structure of Tcur1278, which was superior to Tcur0390. The RMSF profiles that describe the deviation of C atoms of single amino acid residues from the averaged position over the simulation period showed highly flexible regions in the neighborhood of the catalytic residues H208 and D176. The thermal stability of Tcur1277 needs to be further improved for an efficient degradation of PET. Protein engineering in regions near the catalytic triad aswell as at the flexible N-terminus could be a useful ap-proach for further optimizations to overcome the limited thermal stability of these polyester hydrolases.
Wei et al. have presented a study on the characterization and modeling of synthetic polyester-degrading hydrolases from Thermomo-nospora curvata. The study is a combination of research on the characterization and structural modeling of synthetic polyester -degrading hydrolase. The study also includes research on the characterization of a new esterase from Thermobifida halotolerans that hydrolyses polyethyleneterephthalate and polylactic acid. The study is an example of a biofunctionalization of polymers and their applications.