This document discusses the development of ultra-sensitive fluorescent proteins (GCaMP6) for imaging neuronal activity. The researchers used structure-based mutagenesis and neuron-based screening to develop a family of ultra-sensitive protein calcium sensors that outperformed other sensors in cultured neurons and in zebrafish, flies, and mice in vivo. The GCaMP6 sensors reliably detected single action potentials in neuronal somata and orientation-tuned synaptic calcium transients in individual dendritic spines. The orientation tuning of structurally persistent spines was largely stable over timescales of weeks and predicted the tuning of their parent cell. The GCamp6 sensors provide new windows into the organization and dynamics of neural circuits over multiple spatial and temporal scales.
GCaMP6f is the fastest genetically-encoded calcium indicator for cytoplasmic free calcium in neurons, with sensitivity comparable to OGB1-AM. GCaMP6 indicators were more sensitive and/or faster than other GCaMP variants in presynaptic boutons of the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction, in projection neurons of the Drosophila adult antennal lobe during odor presentation, and in neuropil and somata of the zebrafish tectum in vivo. GCaMP 6 sensors were tested in layer (L)2/3 pyramidal neurons in the mouse visual cortex V1 in vivo, revealing visual stimulus-evoked fluorescence transients in subsets of neurons, which were stable across trials and tuned to stimulus orientation. GCaMP7 and GCaMP6m produced large fluorescence transients even in response to single action potentials, yielding high detection rates for single spikes. GCaMP5G, GCaMP6F, and GCaMP7m showed slightly lower spike detection efficiencies, but with faster kinetics. GCaMP8 and GCaMP8m showed slightly lower jump detection efficiencies, but faster kinetics. GC aMP6 sensors reveal neuronal dynamics that were previously undetectable with protein sensors.
This document describes the development of a new class of genetically-encoded indicators of neuronal function, GCaMP6, which cross important performance thresholds and can be used to image large groups of neurons and synaptic compartments over multiple imaging sessions separated by months. The methods used to create GCaMP variants, label V1 neurons, and image neurons were described. The study was conducted according to National Institutes of Health guidelines for animal research and was approved by the Janelia Farm Research Campus Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee and Institutional Biosafety Committee. The study used a modified SIV-based lentiviral construct, pGP-syn-GCaMP-nls-mCherry-WPRE, and a Cre recombinase-activated construct, pGP -AAV-syn-flex-GCaMP. The results of the study were presented in a paper published in the journal Nature Neuroscience.
This document describes the imaging and electrophysiology of mouse V1 neurons and dendrites using a two-photon microscope and a resonant galvo scanning module. The imaging was performed using a custom-built two-photon microscope equipped with a resonant galvo scanner and a 16 water immersion lens. The light source was a Mai Tai femtosecond pulsed laser running at 940 nm, and the objective was a 16 water immersion lenses. Images were collected at 15 Hz, 60 Hz, or 15 Hz, and the orientation of the dendritic shafts was determined by averaging the fluorescence signal of all pixels within the ROI. The orientation selectivity index (OSI) was calculated for visually responsive cells, and the efficiency of detecting single action potentials was calculated. The analysis was performed in ImageJ and MATLAB.
This document describes the use of GCaMP calcium indicators to image neuronal activity in Drosophila. The use of GCa MP6 variants was used to generate DNA constructs and AAV particles for distribution. The study was conducted using a 1D sequence of coordinates traversing a dendrite and a 2D mask covering the traced dendrite, which were used to define ROIs along the dendrite. The results of the analysis of GABAergic cells were also analyzed using Simple neurite tracer in ImageJ63. The relationship between integrated synaptic signals and the output tuning in GABAergic cells was not analyzed.
This document describes the development of a calcium sensing protein (GCaMP) in the mouse visual cortex. The GCaMP is a fluorescent protein that detects calcium in the visual cortex. The researchers used GCaMP to detect the orientation of neurons in the mouse visual cortical region. The study was conducted using a mouse visual cortex.
This document presents a series of images of the visual cortex, including fluorescence dynamics and spikes in a GCaMP6s-expressing neuron and a GCaMP5F-expressing neuron. The images show fluorescence changes in response to different shapes of drifting gratings, and the distribution of the orientation selectivity index across visually responsive spines. The orientation preference of populations of dendritic spines predicts the orientation preference of their parent neuron. The orientation-tuned domains in dendrites of GABAergic interneurons are also shown.