This document describes the identification of endogenous calcium channel currents in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells. Whole cell endogenous currents (ISr-HEK) were studied in single HEK293 cells with 10 mM strontium as the charge carrier by the patch clamp technique. The kinetic properties and pharmacological features of ISr-HEK were characterized and compared with the properties of a heterologously expressed chimeric L-type calcium channel construct. The study found that the cell line HEK293 does express endogenous calcium channels and that the density of endogenous calcium channelcurrents in HEK293 cells is increased if the cells are grown in serum-free culture medium. The current density after heterologous expression of the L-type calciumchannel al subunit chimera was estimated to be about ten times higher in serum containing medium than that of ISrHEK under the same conditions.
This document describes the study of endogenous calcium channels in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells. The study was conducted using the patch-clamp technique and the use of a microperfusion chamber to exchange the bath solution. The study found that the voltage dependence of calcium channel availability was similar to that of ISr-HEK. The study also compared the kinetics of ISr-HeK with that of the chimeric al subunit sH, which activated and inactivated with slower current kinetics compared to ISr-HEk. The results suggest that the presence of endogenous calcium channels may be due to the presence of L-type al subunits in the cells.
The voltage-dependent kinetics of ISr-sH and ISr-HEK were studied, and the maximal current density of ISr-SH was estimated from the peak current values obtained upon depolarization. ISr-sS were sensitive to 1,4-dihydropyridines and were stereoselectively inhibited by the antagonistisradipine. The block by isradipine was reversible, whereas the block by (-)nimodipine was nearly irreversible. Endogenous calcium channel currents were inhibited by Ni2+, and the cone snail toxin co-CTx MVIIC and co-CTx GVIA induced weak inhibition of the endogenous calcium channel current. The inhibition of ISr-HEk by isradipine and (-)nimidipine distinguishes ISr-HE K from class E calcium channels, but it was not stereoselective and oc-side.
This document discusses the study of the functional properties of L-type calcium channels in HEK293 cells. The current density of L-type currents recorded 48 hours after transfection ranged about one order of magnitude above the current density observed in non-transfected HEK293 cells. It is important to note that the density of endogenous calcium channels in HEK293 cells is dependent on the cell culture conditions and is increased if the cells are cultured in FBS-free culture medium. The contamination of L-type channels by 1Sr-HEK can be reduced if the membrane potential is held in the range -40 to -35 mV or corresponding pre-pulses are applied. The contamination of whole cell L-type calciumchannels by'Sr-HEk is dependent on the test pulse po-tential and will be small in the range of 10 to 30 mV. The study provides references for previous studies on voltage gated calcium channels and the identification of calcium channels from skeletal muscle.