The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is overexpressed in approximately 90% of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HNSCC. However, only a subset of patients benefit from anti-EGFR targeted therapy. An unbiased proteomics screen found that the calcium-activated chloride channel ANO1 interacts with EGFR and facilitates EGFR-signaling in HNSCC. ANO1 and EGFR form a functional complex that jointly regulates HNSCC cell proliferation. Co-inhibition of EGFR and ANO1 had an additive effect on HNSCC cell proliferation, suggesting that co-targeting of ANO1 and EGF could enhance the clinical potential of EGFR-targeted therapy in HNSCC and might circumvent the development of resistance to single agent therapy. ANO1 is a calcium-activated chloride channels that mediate transepithelial ion transport and regulates airway fluid secretion, gut motility, secretory functions of exocrine glands, renal function, (vascular) smooth muscle contraction and nociception.
ANO1 and EGFR form a complex in head and neck cancer cells. The interaction between ANO1 and EGF is independent of ANO1's activity as a CaCC, EGFR-kinase activity, or the phosphorylation and dimerization status of EGFR. The interaction between EGFR and ANO1 is independent of the dimerization status of either protein and does not require the trans-/juxta-membrane domain of EGFR. The results of discovery proteomics experiments showed that ANO1 and ERBB1 form a complex independent of the activation state of either protein and suggest that ANO1 is a constitutive component of the EGFR-ANO1 complex in HNSCC cell lines.
ANO1 interacts with the transmembrane domain and/or juxtamembrane domain of EGFR, suggesting that ANO1 interacts without the C-terminus of ANO1. EGFR-signaling regulates ANO1-expression in cancer cells by increasing ANO1 protein levels. Knockdown of ANO1 reduces EGFR protein levels and the level of EGFR on the plasma membrane is tightly controlled by recycling/trafficking and degradation processes. The rate of EGFR-induced degradation of EGFR was reduced by ANO1 knockdown, but did not affect the rate of EGF-induced degradation of EGF.
ANO1 regulates EGFR-protein levels in cancer cells by a posttranslational, degradation-independent mechanism, suggesting a role of ANO1 in stabilizing EGFR in the cells. Loss of ANO1 inhibits cell proliferation by reducing EGFR-expression, but it can be partially rescued by restoring EGFR-expression in the cells, leading to a recovery of ANO1-protein and cell viability. Expression of ANO1 predicts susceptibility to EGFR kinase inhibitors in HNSCC cell lines. Co-targeting of ANO1 and EGFR could enhance the clinical potential of EGFR-targeted therapy in HNSCC.
This document discusses the study of ANO1 expression levels and sensitivity to Gefitinib in HNSCC cell lines. It also discusses the mechanisms regulating ANO1's activity and its role in regulating proliferation in HNSCC cells. The study identified 40 proteins interacting with ANO1 in a HNSCC cell line, including cytoskeletal and calcium-binding proteins, transporters, and membrane proteins. The interaction between ANO1 and EGFR is mediated by the membrane/juxtamembrane domain of EGFR, which plays an important role in regulating the activity of EGFR. The study also demonstrates that chloride transport of ANO1 is not required for its interaction with EGFR, and that ANO1 regulates EGFR protein levels by stabilizing them. The study also suggests that EGFR might phosphorylate ANO1 directly or another protein involved in stabilizing ANO1, thereby increasing the stability of ANO1 protein levels in Te11 cells.
Co-inhibition of EGFR and ANO1 had an additive effect on head and neck cancer cell proliferation, suggesting that co-targeting of ANO1 and EGFR could enhance the clinical potential of EGFR-targeted therapy in HNSCC and might delay or prevent resistance to single agent treatment. While response of HNSCC patients to EGFR targeted therapy is not correlated to expression or amplification of EGFR, HNSCC cell lines with high expression of ANO1 showed enhanced sensitivity to Gefitinib. Inhibition of EGFR-signaling in Te11 cells caused a decrease in ANO1 protein levels, suggesting that ANO1 is a positive regulator of EGFR-signaled in HNSCC cells, rendering the cells more sensitive to EGFR inhibition. The results introduce ANO1 expression as a predictive biomarker for the response to EGFR-targeting therapy in HNSCC, and suggest combination of anti-EGFR and anti-ANO1 directed therapies as a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of HNSCC.
This document is a collection of studies on the role of TMEM16A, a membrane protein associated with calcium-dependent chloride channel activity, in various cancers. It includes studies on the expression and function of the TMEM16A calcium-activated chloride channel, its role in the regulation of renal function, its role in pulmonary hypertension, its role in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, its role in glioma formation, and its role in the development of cancer. It also includes studies on the role and effects of ANO1, a calcium-activated chloride channels, on tumor growth and metastasis.
This document lists various studies that have studied the structure and function of TMEM16 proteins. It also lists studies that have studied Calmodulin-dependent activation and inactivation of an Octamin calcium-gated chloride channels. It also lists several studies that have studied mechanisms of activation of the EGF receptor catalytic domain by the juxtamembrane segment. It also lists various studies that found that the EGFR juxtamem-brane domain, membranes, and calmodulin interact with each other. It also lists a number of studies that have found that the tyrosine phos-phatase PTPN14 is a negative regulator of YAP activity.