The emergence of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) has generated considerable interest in the biomedical community. The coronavirus spike protein (S) protein is the main determinant of viral entry, and although it was previously shown that MERS-CoV S can be activated by various proteases, the details of the mechanisms of proteolytic activation of fusion are still incompletely characterized. We have identified distinctive characteristics of MERS-CoV, by bioinformatics and peptide cleavage assays, two cleavage sites for furin, a broadly expressed protease, which are located at the S1/S2 interface and at the S2 position of the S protein. We show that although the S1/ S2 site is proteolytically processed by furin during protein biosynthesis, the S2 site is cleavageally processed by fur in part during virus entry. The ability of MERS-Co V to use furin in this manner, along with other proteases, may explain the polytropic nature, patho-genicity, and life cycle of this viral virus.
This document discusses the cleavage of MERS-CoV S at the S1/S2 site during protein biosynthesis and after viral assembly and egress. It also discusses the role of furin during viral entry and its role in enhancing susceptibility to MERS-CoV infection. The document also discusses the roleof furin in the regulation of low-pH endosomes and the role of fur in overriding the low-pH dependency of MERS-Co V entry. The document concludes by stating that the results of this study suggest that furin can be considered an additional determinant for tropism.
This document describes a novel and surprising feature of MERS-CoV S: that it can be proteolytically processed by furin at two distinct sites, with the cleavage events temporally separated. The S1/S2 cleavage occurs during biosynthesis of S, and the S2 cleavage occurs during virus entry. Furin inhibition inhibits MERS-CoV entry and cell cell fusion by performing entry inhibition assays on different cell lines. The results of these assays were confirmed by performing furin inhibition assays with authentic MERS-CoV infection. The results of the experiments highlight the importance of pro-teolytic cleavage by furin of both S1/S3 and S2 sites for cell cell fusion and confirms the two-step furin cleavageactivation process.
This study investigates the effect of furin inhibition on MERS-CoV S-mediated entry in Huh-7 cells. It also examines the role of furin in modulating susceptibility to MERS-CoV infection, along with its receptor DPP4. The results suggest that MERS-CoV can use different activation pathways involving different proteases, which can occur concurrently within a given cell. The results suggest a redundancy in cleavage activation mechanisms that both viruses appear to take advantage of. The results suggest the potential for drug combinations that target MERS-CoV-activating proteases to be potential antiviral agents.
This study focuses on the proteolytic activation of envelope glycoproteins in the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). The study offers insights into the tropism and pathogenicity of enveloped viruses and may lead to the development of a drug combination that targetscathepsins and lung-specific proteases such as TMPRSS2, as well as furin-like proteases, because of their likely involvement in extrapulmonary spread. The study also provides insights into the structure and mechanisms of viral membrane fusion proteins and the role of furin in virus entry and syncytium formation. The study was supported by National Institutes of Health Grant R21 AI111085.