This document describes a study of 25 children with multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), which is a new clinical syndrome related to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The study cohort consisted of 25 children, with the median age of 12.5 years, 40% of whom were girls, and 72% having gastrointestinal symptoms. The study found that 17 (68%) children were SARS-CoV-1 sero-positive, suggesting previous SARS-CoV.2 infections, and these children had more severe disease. The study also found that the clinical features of MIS-C are comparable to those previously reported in the MIS-C literature, and it appears clinically distinct from Kawasaki disease. The study outlined three clinically relevant illness phases: acute, resolution, and convalescence.
The study was conducted on 23 children with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (MIS-C), where the median infectious dose for pseudoviral neutralization assay at T1 was 474 units and positively correlated with RBD and spike protein IgG optical density values. The acute phase was characterized by increased levels of cytokines, raised CRP, and ferritin, confirming acute inflammation, and raised amino (N)-terminal pro B-type natri-uretic peptide (NT-proBNP) and troponin, indicative of myocardial dysfunction and injury, respectively. The study also immunophenotyped innate, T and B cells using three separate flow cytometry panels, and observed activation and cytokine production in the acute, resolution, and conva-lescence phases. The study also observed helper, cytotoxic, and T cell lymphopenia in the acute phase, which returned to normal by convalescence. The study evaluated the clinical relevance of the illness phases using principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering of the immunophenotyping markers. The study found that innate and T cell activation features were dominant in the acute phase of MIS-C, but regulatory T cells were dominant in the resolution phase.
This study examines the innate immune cell alterations in patients with MIS-C at T1, T2, and T3 phases compared with age-matched healthy controls. The study was limited by the assessment of a small cohort from a tertiary pediatric center, the lack of testing for viral replication in the gastrointestinal tract, the sole use of HLA-DR as a T cell activation marker, and the lack of an evaluation of potential genetic susceptibilities. The initiating trigger(s) for MIS-C is unclear, and the two pro-posed immunopathogenic drivers of MIS-C (altered IFN responses and antibody-dependent enhancement of disease (ADE) 1) may differ between patients. The mechanisms underlying these immune abnormalities are of priority for further research.
This is a case series of a prospective cohort study of children with acute respiratory distress syndrome (CHCA) associated with COVID-19. The study was conducted at Evelina London Childrens Hospital, a major tertiary referral center for pediatric infectious diseases, cardiology and intensive care, and coordinates retrieval for 2 million children in South London and Southeast England. The study was approved by the UK Health Research Authority and informed consent was obtained from parents or guardians of children <16 years of age. The clinical features of 11 children included in this cohort have been previously reported by the UK Paediatric Intensive Care Audit Network (PICANet) as part of a national cohort. The clinical features were collected from patients between 27 April 2020 and 25 May 2020.
This study focuses on the immune response to the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 in children with acute respiratory distress syndrome (MIS-C). The study was conducted at Kings College Hospital, London, United Kingdom. The study included a primary end-point pneumonia, testing for other infections, cytokine measurements, SARS-CoV -2 infection status, serology, and pseudoviral neutralization assays. The study also included healthy controls for flow cytometry and flow cytometry. The study used three different flow cytometry panels for standardized immunophenotyping of innate, T and B lymphocyte subsets, per the Human Immunology Project.
This document describes the flow cytometry and acquisition of whole-blood samples from children with acute respiratory distress syndrome (PIMS-TS) and COVID-19. The flow cytometry standard files were acquired using BD FACSdiva and analyzed using FlowJo. Statistical analysis was performed using the Factoextra R package and the Factoextra package. The authors thank the parents and children who agreed to take part in this work, the Evelina Diamonds Study team, the Evelina PIMS-TS Working Group and the Evelina Paediatric Research Team, and for logistical support they thank M. Brown, R. Ellis, S. Cochrane and C. Trouillet. The authors also thank F. Krammer (Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai) for provision of the RBD expression plasmid, P. Brouwer, M. van Gils and R. Sanders (University of Amsterdam) for the provision of the RBd expression plasmid, and for logistical help they thank M. Browns, R. Ellis and S. Cochrane.
This document discusses the study of MIS-C, a novel coronavirus infection in children, at Evelina London Childrens Hospital. It describes the study's context, author contributions, and the funding sources. It also provides extended data and supplementary information. The authors declare no competing interests.
This is a Nature Research report on the reporting summary for a study on the use of flow cytometry to study the immune system in patients with the novel syndrome MiS-C. The report includes a summary of the statistical analysis, the data analysis, the field-specific reporting, the study design, sample size, data exclusions, replication, randomization, blinding, and reporting for specific materials, systems, and methods. The report is updated on August 3, 2020.
This is a report on a study conducted by Evelina London Children's Hospital to investigate the cytokines, serological status, neutralization assay of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, and major innate and adaptive immune cell subsets. The study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee and received UK HRA approval. The study protocol is the same as the Diamonds Study, to which the patients were co-recruited. The study began recruitment on 28th April 2020 and patients included in this cohort were recruited up until 25th May 2020. The outcomes of interest were cytokines, serological status and major innate and adapted immune cell subsets.