This document discusses the role of cellular proteases in the activation of coronaviruses and the role of the endosomal cysteine protease cathepsin L and the serine proteases furin and TMPRSS2 in prime-time priming of the viral spike glycoprotein (S). The S protein mediates the first essential step in coronavirus infection, viral entry into target cells, and the responsible enzymes are potential targets for antiviral intervention. The article provides basic information on S protein function and proteolytic priming, and discusses recent progress in understanding the priming of the S proteins of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. The article also discusses the development of antivirals and the threat coronaviruses pose to animal and human health.
The coronavirus spike protein (S protein) is a viral key for entry into target cells. The S protein contains an N-terminal signal peptide which primes the nascent polyprotein for import into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and is modified with N-linked glycans. Homotrimers of the S protein are incorporated into the viral membrane and mediate viral entry into target cells by binding to a specific receptor located at the surface of host cells and determining cellular tropism and viral pathogenesis. The S protein also mediates fusion between the viral envelope and a target cell membrane. Coronaviruses use a broad range of receptors for entry into target cell, including angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE2). The S protein of SARS-CoV from palm civets harbors amino acids at positions 479 and 487 which preclude efficient binding to human ACE2, and acquisition of mutations at these positions was sufficient for cross-species transmission during the SARS epidemic. The core domain of the S1-CTD in MERS-S structurally resembles that of SARS-S, but the extended core domains are different, with the MERS-S binding site on DPP4 located within a propeller-like structure con-served in bat, camel, and human DPP4.
The structural 4 Coronavirus Spike Protein provides insights into S protein receptor inter-actions and how they can be inhibited by antibodies. The transmembrane unit S2 harbors domains required for fusion between viral and host cell membrane, including a fusion peptide and two heptad repeats (HR1 and HR2). Membrane fusion commences with the insertion of the fusion peptide into the target cell membrane. Several unrelated viral glycoproteins exhibit the same domain organization and membrane fusion mechanism as CoV S proteins. However, priming of CoV S proteins is substantially more complex and can impact the cellular localization of membrane fusion. The major advances of our understanding of S protein priming relative to early studies are briefly outlined and then dis-cussed in detail in the context of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV infection.
The role of cathepsin L in coronavirus entry has been discovered in the context of SARS-CoV infection. Cathepsin L can activate SARS-S, as well as other CoVs other than SARS-CoV, including PEDV, MHV, HCoV-229E, and MERS-CoV. Cathepsins are generated as preproenzymes and are required for protein degradation and turnover in a cell type-independent fashion. However, expression of cathepsins K, W, and S is cell type- or tissue-specific, suggesting more specialized functions. Catheps in L can activate diverse CoV upon endosomal entry, and the mechanisms controlling choice of catheps in L versus other CoV-activating proteases as well as their role in CoV spread in vivo have only recently been discovered. Activation of coronavirus spike proteins by host cell proteases occurs at different stages in the viral life cycle.
The article discusses the role of type II transmembrane serine proteases (TTSPs) in promoting S protein activation at the plasma membrane. Three studies independently demonstrated that TMPRSS2 activates FLUAV-HA and SARS-S, and that it can also cleavage SARS-S when both proteins are localized in the same membrane. The cleavage site of TMPRSS2 is largely unclear, but it is speculated that R797 might be involved. The exploitation of TTSPs for S protein activation is not limited to SARS-CoV, as it has been suggested to be a determinant of mammalian transmission of MERS-CoV-related viruses from bats to humans. The evidence suggests that TMPRSS2 but not cathepsin L activity is important for CoV spread in the infected host, and the underlying mechanism remains to be investigated.
The cleavage activation of the S protein of coronaviruses by host cell proteases is required for viral infectivity, and the responsible enzymes constitute potential targets for antiviral intervention. Recent insights obtained for MERS-S activation provide interesting answers and will be discussed below. Furin, a subtilisin-like serine protease, belongs to the family of pro-protein convertase (PPC), which comprises nine members. Furin can cleave MERS-S at the S1/S2 site during S protein biogenesis in the constitutive secretory pathway of infected cells and at the S2 site during S proteins-driven entry into target cells. Furin is an activator of certain CoV S proteins, and cleavage of MERS-S at The S1/S3 site in infected cells determines whether MERS-S is activated by cathepsin L or TMPRSS2 during viral entry into target cells, with only cleavage at the S1-S2 site in infected cells providing sufficient conformational flexibility for activation at the cell surface by TMPRSS2.
This document is a collection of papers on various topics related to coronaviruses, including the activation of the SARS coronavirus spike protein, the receptor-binding domain of the human coronavirus HCoV-229E, the activation of the influenza virus by serine proteases, the characterization of the coronavirus spike protein's receptor binding domain, the identification of a susceptibility gene for severe 2009 pandemic A(H1N1) influenza and A(H7N9) influenza, the characterization of a receptor-binding domain from the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, the identification of the receptor-binding domains of the novel human coronaviruses, and the identification of a receptor-bound domain in the S protein of the novel human virus as an essential target for vaccine development.
This document discusses various topics related to coronaviruses, including the SARS coronavirus, MERS coronavirus, and the MERS coronavirus. It also discusses the role of the Tmprss2 protease in the pathogenesis and virulence of coronaviruses, and the role of the cathepsin L isoform in the pathogenesis of HIV-1. It also discusses how the SARS coronavirus and MERS coronavirus enter cells and the role of Tmprss 2 in the pathogenesis of these viruses.
This document is a collection of papers on various topics related to coronaviruses, including the pathogenesis of murine coronavirus infection of the central nervous system, the origin of the novel Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, the structure of coronavirus spike proteins, the receptor-binding domain of the SARS coronavirus, the receptor-bound domain of the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, the receptor- binding domain of the MERS coronavirus, the mechanism of the Middle East respiratory syndrome virus's entry into the cell, the receptor-carrying function of the spike protein, the receptor-specificity of the virus, the receptor binding domain of the new MERS coronavirus, and the role of the spike glycoprotein of human Middle East respiratory syndrome Coronavirus.
This document discusses the role of adenosine deaminase in the entry of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). It also discusses the role of the host protease TMPRSS2 in in vivo replication of H7N9 and seasonal influenza viruses. It also discusses various coronavirus spike proteins and their regulation.
This document discusses the discovery of seven novel mammalian and avian coronaviruses in the genus deltacoronavirus. It also discusses the role of bat coronaviruses and avian coronaviruses as the gene sources of alphacoronavi-rus and betacoronavirus and the role of avian coronaviruses in gammacoronavirus and deltacoronavirus, respectively. It also discusses mechanisms of host receptor adaptation by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus and the use of receptor usage and cell entry of bat coronavirus HKU4 to understand bat-to-human transmission of MERS coronavi-rus. Finally, it discusses the discovery of protease inhibitors targeting coronavirus and filovirus entry and the activation of influenza A viruses and emerging coronaviruses for host cell entry.