The study aims to investigate the safety and efficacy of orally applied niclosamide tablets in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) progressing after therapy. The study is a phase II, single center, one-arm open-label clinical trial to investigate the safety, toxicity, and efficacy of niclosamide tablets. The primary objective of the trial is to assess the progression free survival after 4 months, secondary objectives are overall survival, time to progression, disease control rate, and safety. The study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov and the European Clinical TrialsDatabase. The study aims to translate the findings on restricting S100A4-driven metastasis into clinical practice for treating metastatic CRC patients progressing after standard therapy.
This document describes the study aims and objectives of a phase II single center, one-arm open-label clinical trial for patients with metastatic CRC. The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of orally applied niclosamide, with secondary objectives being progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression, dis-ease control rate, and safety. The study is organized by the Charit Comprehensive CancerCenter (CCCC) in collaboration with the Max-Delbrck-Center for Molecular Medicine (MDC), Berlin, Germany. The study is a one-arm open label clinical trial with a Simon two-stage design to allow early termination due to futility. The study will take up to 30 months to complete and will involve a recruitment process, dose modification, assessments, and optional translational research.
This document describes the procedures for the study of the use of niclosamide as an anti-cancer drug in colorectal cancer patients. The study will investigate the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics of orally applied niclosamide in cancer patients, and if it will result in prolonging the progression-free survival (PFS) of the patients. The study includes a comprehensive inclusion and exclusion criteria, as well as a translational research program to gain deeper insights into the mechanisms of niclosamide-mediated anti-cancer activity. The final protocol was approved by the ethics committee of the Landesamt frGesundheit und Sociales (LAGeSo), Berlin, Germany and the Bundesinstitut frArzneimittel und Medizinprodukte (BfArM) and is registered at EudraCT database (EudraCT 2014-005151-20) and Clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02519582).
This study is a clinical trial to investigate the use of anti-helminthic drug niclosamide in the treatment of colorectal cancer. Written informed consent is obtained from each patient before inclusion in the trial and the nature, scope, and possible consequences of the trial have been explained by a physician. The authors declare no competing interests, except for the following patent applications: Stein U, Walther W, Sack U, Scudiero D, Schlag PM, Shoemaker RH. Niclosamide for treatment of cancer metastasis.
BioMed Central is a platform that helps researchers submit their manuscripts to various journals. We accept pre-submission inquiries, provide round-the-clock customer support, and have a selection tool to help you find the most relevant journal. We also provide a convenient online submission process and thorough peer review. Submit your manuscript at www.biomedcentral.com/submit.