This document discusses the pathogenesis of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the potential for reintroduc-tion of SARS into the human population. The study shows that the lysosomotropic-agent-mediated block to SARS-CoV infection is overcome by protease treatment of target-cell-associated virus. Additionally, SARS-CoV was blocked byspecic inhibitors of the pH-sensitive endosomal protease cathep-sin L. The results suggest that SARS-CoV entry results from a unique three-step process: receptor binding and induced conformational changes in S glycoprotein followed by cathepsin L proteolysis. The requirement for cathepsinL proteolysis identifies a previously uncharacterized class of inhibitor for SARS-CoV infections.
This document describes the effects of proteases on SARS-CoV membrane fusion and the ability of proteases to bypass inhibition of endosomal acidification. The study also examines the sensitivity of SARS-CoV S protein-mediated entry to protease inhibitors. The study found that the ability of trypsin cleavage to overcome inhibition of endosomal acidity suggested a requirement for endosomal protease activity. The study also found that the presence of leupeptin, an inhibitor of endosomal trypsin-like serine andcysteine proteases, was able to effectively inhibit infection by free HIV(SARS S) pseudovirions. The study also shows that the presence of Leupeptin is unlikely to be the concentrations required to efficiently inhibit a spreading SARS.
This document discusses the effects of various proteases on SARS-CoV infection. The authors identify a pH-dependent cysteine protease, perhaps CTSL, as a key factor in SARS-CoV entry. They also identify a high-throughput screening of a library of pharmacologically active compounds to identify potential lead candidates for therapeutic inhibition of CTSL. The authors also develop a cell-free, virus membrane-fusion assay to examine the effects of pH and proteolysis on SARS-Co V-mediated membrane fusion. The authors also identify a potent inhibitor of CTSL activity, MDL28170, as a strong initial candidate for antiviral inhibitors of SARS-CoV viral entry.
The study focuses on the role of cathepsin L (CTSL) in the activation of SARS-CoV membrane fusion. The study found that the activation of SARS S protein requires the interaction with ACE2, and that temperature-dependent changes in S protein are required before proteolysis. The study also found that CTSL enhances intervirion fusion, and that acidic conditions are required for CTSL-mediated S protein activation. The study suggests that the activation of CTSL is a transient intermediate in the membrane-fusion process, similar to theconformations of influenza and HIV proteins induced by pH or coreceptor binding.
This document discusses the entry process of SARS-CoV S protein into target cells and the role of cellular proteases in activating the viral glycoproteins membrane-fusion potential. The study suggests that receptor-mediated conformational changes induce exposure of cryptic cleavage sites within the viral envelope glycoprotein, and that proteases are then necessary to fullyactivate the viral glycoproteins. The study also raises the question of whether other classically defined pH-dependent viruses display this dependence because of a requirement for acidic protease involvement, as is commonly assumed. Future investigation will reveal whether SARS-CoV and Ebola represent initial members of a previouslyuncharacterized category of viral fusion proteins.