This document discusses the distribution of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) receptor, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), and its role in the activation of virus infection. The distribution of ACE2 expression in the lung does not strictly correlate with SARS-CoV cell tropism, suggesting that other cellular factors are required for activation of virus infection, such as host cellular proteases. The spatial orientation of transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2) is a key mechanism underling this phenomenon, and it is hypothesized that the spatial orientation of TMPRSS2 vis-a-vis S protein is a key mechanism. The results indicate that TMPRSS2 needs to be expressed in the opposing cell membrane to activate S protein rather than in the producer cell, as found for inuenza A virus and metapneumoviruses. The study also describes the experimental methods and materials used, including animal experiments, immunouorescence staining, cell culture, virus entry assay, and Western blotting.
This document describes the study of the distribution of TMPRSS2 and ACE2 in the SARS-CoV-infected cynomolgus lung and the study of syncytium formation by SARS-CoV infection of Vero cells. The study also examines the effects of various inhibitors of serine and cysteine proteases on the activation of SARS-CoV spike protein by TMPRSS2. The study also shows that the spatial orientation of TMPRSS2 against S protein might be critical for S pro-tein activation. The study also demonstrates that the spatial orientationof TMPRSS2 againstS protein might be criticalfor S pro-te in activation.
This document discusses the role of the respiratory tract inflammatory protein (ACE2) in the activation of SARS-CoV S protein. It also discusses the role of TMPRSS2 in the activation of S protein and the role of spatial orientation in the activation of the S protein. The study also discusses the roleof elastase in enhancing SARS-CoV infectivity and the role of ACE2 in determining SARS-CoV pathogenicity. The study also examines the role of the airway transmembrane protease, TMPRSSS11a, in the activation ofS protein by TMPRSS2 and the role of the spatial orientation of TMPRSS2. The results of the study suggest that the spatial orientation of the two proteins must be opposite to each other to induce membrane fusion.
This document discusses the effects of HR2 peptide on the entry of SARS-CoV into lung cells that express transmembrane proteases. It is shown that HR2 peptide in-hibits viral entry into TMPRSS2-expressing cells, which is evidence that TMPRSS2 is efcient for viralentry and is localized at the cell surface, exposing the HR2peptide binding site before endocytosis can occur. This result suggests that HR2 peptide may be a suitable candidate antiviral for the inhibition of SARS-Co V infection of lung cells that express membrane-associated proteases.
This document lists several studies that have been published on the entry of coronaviruses into the human body. These studies include studies on the role of cathepsin L inhibitors in preventing the entry of SARS-coronavirus, the characterization of SARS-coV spike glycoprotein-mediated viral entry, and the study of the tissue distribution of the coronavirus and its putative receptor, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2.