This document discusses the effects of microRNA therapy on cardiac repair after myocardial infarction in pigs. It shows that expression of human microRNA-199a in infarcted pig hearts is capable of stimulating cardiac repair and that one month after myocardial infarction, the treated animals showed marked improvements in both global and regional contractility, increased muscle mass and reduced scar size. However, persistent and uncontrolled expression of the microRNA resulted in sudden arrhythmic death of most of the treated pigs. The results show that achieving cardiac repair through the stimulation of endogenous cardiomyocyte proliferation is attainable in large mammals, but this therapy needs to be tightly dosed.
This study shows that cardiac AAV6-miR-199a delivery reduces infarct size, diminishes cardiac fibrosis, and improves contractile function in infarcted pigs by stimulating CM de-differentiation and proliferation. The study also shows that expression of miR-199a boosts endogenous CM proliferation, and that proliferation occurred in cells that remained connected to one another via intact connexin-43 desmosomes at intercalated discs. The study also explores some of the molecular correlates of cardiac repair and improved cardiac function, and finds that the ratio between transcripts for adult and foetal -myosin heavy chains was maintained by AAV6-mi R-199a, and a trend towards preservation from maladaptive hypertrophy was observed at 30 days. However, uncontrolled, long-term expression of this miRNA eventually determined sudden cardiac death of most animals. The study shows that cardiac administration of pro-proliferative miRNAs can stimulate cardiac repair after MI, but needs to be properly dosed.
This document describes the study of open chest surgery and myocardial infarction in male farm pigs. The animals were sedated with a. 5 mg/kg cocktail of tiletamine hydrochloride and zolazepam hydrochloride, intubated, and mechanically ventilated with positive pressure. A thoracotomy was performed in the left fourth intercostal space and the pericardial sac was opened to expose the heart. Myocardial infarction was induced by coronary occlusion in 19 pigs anesthetized and operated on. The animals were randomized in 2 groups receiving either empty AAV6 or AAV6-HSA-miR-199a-3p, and the surviving animals were randomized in 1 group receiving either control or miR-199a vectors. The animals were sectioned through four horizontal Gabisonia et al. planes and each section was divided into 2-8 regions for further histological and molecular analysis. The main functional characteristics of pigs treated with either AAV6-Control or AAV6-miR-99a were analysed by cMRI. The main functional parameters of pigs treated with AAV6-Control and AAV6-mi R-199a were summarized in Extended Data Table 1. The main functional features of pigs treated with these vectors were summarised in Extended Data Table 2.
This document describes the analysis of cardiac images and the use of custom software to analyze DNA and RNA isolation and quantification. The heart sections were sectioned and processed for histology or immunofluorescence. The extent of fibrosis was measured using Image J and the extent of infarcts was determined using the full width half maximum method. The study also included RNA isolation and quantification, histopathological and immunofluorescence analyses, and miRNA in situ hybridisation. Statistical analysis was performed using commercially available software and was performed using one-way ANOVA, two-way ANOVA, and the Bonferroni post-hoc test.
The study aims to investigate the role of the adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector in the transduction of swine hearts after myocardial infarction. The study was conducted in pigs and the results showed that the AAV6-miR-199a vector improved global heart function and decreased infarct mass one month after treatment. The study also found that the miRNA induces cardiomyocyte proliferation in vivo and induces multinucleation and CM hypertrophy in miR-199a-treated pig hearts. The study was published in Nature on November 8, 2019.
This document describes the study of the expression of miR-199a in cardiomyocytes in the infarct border zone of AAV6-miR-199a-treated pigs. It also describes the molecular correlates of miR-199 a transduction and the effects of the treatment on the expression of genes involved in the pathogenesis of the Long QT Syndrome, Brugada syndrome, Carvajal syndrome, Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy, and Catecholaminergic Polymorphic Ventricular Tachycardia. It also describes recordings of fatal arrhythmias in two infarcted pigs treated with AAV6-mi R-199a-3p and the formation of proliferating cell clusters with an early myoblast phenotype infiltrating the pig myocardium.
The study focuses on the role of microRNAs in the cardiac regeneration of zebrafish and human hearts. The study found that the cells were highly proliferating and negative for leukocyte common antigens CD45 and CD34, markers of muscle differentiation, and Wt1. The infiltrating cells were positive for GATA4, myogenin, caldesmon, and the endothelin-B receptor. The study also found that clusters of cells were never detected in control-injected animals, but in one animal injected with AAV6-miR-199a in the absence of MI. The study was supported by the European Research Council (ERC), the Leducq Foundation Transatlantic Network of Excellence, the Fondation CRTrieste, Trieste, Italy, and the Italian Ministry of Health. The authors are grateful to Marina Dapas and Michela Zotti from the ICGEB AAV Unit for AAV vector production.
This document describes a study in which a single-dose intracardiac injection of pro-regenerative microRNAs, such as miR-199a, was used to improve cardiac function after a myocardial infarction. The study was conducted in pig hearts and was conducted in Europe. The authors present results of the study and discuss the experimental protocol. The study also includes a description of the study's methods and results.
This document presents a study of the effects of a gene therapy on the heart. The study found that the long-term expression of miR-199a induced progressive cardiac regeneration but caused sudden death. The study was conducted in Europe and is available in Nature.