This document discusses the role of calcium-dependent phospholipid scrambling by TMEM16F in various biological systems. The study found that when a mouse B-cell line, Ba/F3, was treated with a Ca2+-ionophore under Ca2+-low conditions, it reversibly exposed phosphatidylserine (PS). The PS exposure is believed to be mediated by Ca2+-dependent phospholipid scramblases that bidirectionally transport phospholipids, but its molecular mechanism has remained elusive. The study identified a constitutively active mutant of TMEM16F (Transmembrane protein 16F), a protein with eight transmembrane segments, which was found to be an essential component for the Ca2+- dependent PS exposure on the cell surface. The study also identified the gene responsible for the enhanced phospholipid Scramblase activity, which was found in the D409G mutant TMEM16F.
This study focuses on the role of TMEM16F in the regulation of phospholipids in blood coagulation. The expression of TMEM16f in Ba/F3 cells was knocked down by expressing TMEM16F shRNA. The expression of the endogenous TMEM16F was found to be extremely sensitive to Ca2+, such that the phopholipid Scramblase functioned even in resting cells, in which the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration is below 100 nM. The TMEM16 family consists of 10 members in human and mouse, and the founding member of the family, human TMEM16A, is a Ca2+-dependent Cl--channel. The PS exposure or scrambling of phospholipids occurs in other biological processes, such as the apoptotic cell death, the fusion of muscle, bone or trophoblast cells, and the release of neurotransmitters and microvesicles.
This document describes the molecular cloning of TMEM16F and the phospholipids-scrambling in TMEM16F-expressing cells. It also describes the use of a splice mutation of TMEM16 F gene in a Scott patient. The authors declare no competing financial interests.
This document describes the methods for the preparation of a cDNA library from mouse interleukin (IL-3)-dependent Ba/F3 cells and human EBV-transformed cell lines. The cell lines were maintained in RPMI containing 10% fetal calf serum, 45 units/ml of recombinant mouse IL-3, and 50 M -mercaptoethanol. The recombinant mouse IL-4 was produced by transforming mouse C127I cells with a bovine papillomavirus expression vector bearing mouse IL-3 cDNA. The antibodies used were BAPTA-AM, 1-oleoyl-2-{6-nitro-2-1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-yl)-sphoingosine-1-phosphocoline (NBD-SM), and 1-oleoyl, 2-[(7-nitro-2,1,3,benzoxadiazol)-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (NBD-PC), and N-{6- nitro-2,1-benzoxadiazole-4-yl, and 1-Oleoyl, 2-phosphocholine (BDT-PC).
This document describes the DNA sequencing and PCR analysis of TMEM16F cDNA and sequencing of its chromosomal gene in a Scott syndrome patient. It also describes the analysis of exposure of PS and PE, internalization of NBD-lipid analogies, intracellular Ca2+ and Ca2+ influx, and thin-layer chromatography. The document also describes the RT-PCR of TMEM16 F cDNA and sequencing of the human TMEM16F chromosomal gene.
This document describes the study of the effect of a pRS shRNA vector on the expression of TMEM16F in Ba/F3 cells. It also includes a list of references and references to the study. The study was conducted using a modified version of the methods described in the original paper. The results of the study are detailed.