This document presents evidence that the type II transmembrane serine protease TMPRSS2 activates the SARS-CoV spike protein for membrane fusion and reduces viral control by the immune response. The spike protein of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) can be proteolyti-cally activated by cathepsins B and L upon viral uptake into target cell endosomes. However, it is largely unknown whether host cell proteases located in the secretory pathway of infected cells and/or on the surface of target cells can cleavage SARS S. Western blot analysis revealed that SARS S was cleavage into several fragments upon coexpression of TMPRSS2 and upon contact between SARS S-expressing cells and TMPRSS2-positive cells. The results suggest that TMPRSS2 might promote viral spread and pathogenesis by diminishing viral recognition by neutralizing antibodies and by activating SARS S for cell-cell and virus-cell fusion.
This document describes the production of virus-like particles (VLPs), shedding of SARS S protein, detection of SARS S by immunoblotting, and analysis of SARS S glycosylation. It also describes the quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) analysis of TMPRSS2 mRNA expression, trans-cleavage of SARS S by TMPRSS2, SARS-driven cell-cell fusion, TMPRSS2-dependent syncytium formation, and TMPRSS2-independent cellular entry of SARS-CoV. The document also describes the use of TaqMan gene expression assays to detect Tmprss2 transcripts.
The pulmonary protease TMPRSS2 can cleavage the SARS S protein, which is a major target of SARS-CoV. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of virus-like particles released from transiently transfected cells revealed a prominent 160- to 170-kDa band representing full-length SARS S, and, upon trypsintreatment, a 90-kDa band. When TMPRSS2 and SARS S were coexpressed, the largest band observed was approximately 150 kDa, with additional bands of 45, 55, and 85kDa. The cleavage of SARS S by TMPRSS2 decreases viral sensitivity to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies, and induces SARS S shedding. The impact of SARS S cleavage by TMPRSS2 on antibody-mediated neutralization was analyzed using serum from mice immunized with soluble S protein.
The results of this study suggest that cleavage of SARS S by TMPRSS2 induces SARS S shedding, but a fraction of SARS S remains uncleaved and is incorpo-rated into particles. The role of shed SARS S protein in susceptibility of SARS S pseudotypes to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies was investigated. The concentrated supernatants from TMPRSS2-ex-pressing cells (containing shed SARS S) conferred neutralization resistance to SARS S pseudotypes in a dose-dependent manner, demonstrating that TMPRSS2-dependent shedding of SARS S induces neutralization resistance. The study also investigated the impact of expression of TMPRSS2 on SARS S-driven cell-to-cell fusion and the impact of protease expression on syncytium formation in TMPRSS2-positive cells infected with replication-competent SARS-CoV.
This document discusses the activation of SARS-S by TMPRSS2 in surrogate systems and authentic SARS-CoV. It also discusses the effects of TMPRSS2 on SARS-driven cell-cell fusion in the presence of a lysosomotropic agent and a cathepsin inhibitor. It also discusses whether TMPRSS2 can activate SARS-S in the lung of infected humans and whether it can reduce the requirement for acidic pH and cathepsin activity for SARS S-driven infectious entry.
This document discusses the cleavage of the SARS virus spike protein by the transmembrane serine protease TMPRSS2. It is shown that cleavage has different consequences depending on the location of TMPRSS2, including shedding of SARS S into the antibodies or activation of SARS S for virus-cell and cell-cell fusion. The cleavage of SARS S into several fragments was observed upon coexpression of TMPRSS2 but not TMPRSS4, indicating that SARS S is cleavaged at multiple motifs. The cleavage of the SARS S pseudotypes generated in the presence of TMPRSS2 was largely resistant to neutralization by mouse sera, indicating that the humoral immune response contributes to immune control of SARS-CoV infection. The SARS S sequence motifs cleavage by TMPRSS2 are unknown, but the largest cleavage fragment contained the conserved receptorbinding domain (RBD) in SARS S, which is a major target for neutralizing antibodies. Expression of SARS S on effector cells can allow fusion with receptor-positive target cells, resulting in syncytia.
This document discusses the role of the trypsin-like protease TMPRSS2 in the activation of SARS-CoV during host cell entry. It is shown that TMPRSS2 can activate SARS-CoV for spread in host cells, and that TMPRSS4 can only activate SARS-Co V for spread in hostcells. The study also shows that type II pneumocytes, which are major SARS-CoV targetcells, coexpress TMPRSS2 and ACE2, suggesting that cathepsin inhibitors might not be able to suppress viral spread ininfected patients. The role of TMPRSS2 in SARS-CoV spread and pathogenesis warrants further investigation, and Tmprss2 knockout mice might be a useful tool for these studies.
This document is a collection of papers on various aspects of the SARS coronavirus, including its S protein, its receptor, and its entry into cells. It is divided into sections: S protein, S glycoprotein, S receptor, and S glycoprotein-binding domain. It also includes sections on the role of the serine protease TMPRSS2 in the entry of SARS-coronavirus into cells, the intracellular sites of early replication and budding, and the expression of the S glycoprotein. It also includes a list of authors who have contributed to the work.