This document reports that activation of the Cl channel ANO1 by localized calcium signals in nociceptive sensory neurons requires coupling with the IP3 receptor. ANO1 is an important group of ion channels that are involved in regulation of epithelial transport, smooth muscle contraction, neuronal excitability, and sensory transduction. Ca2+-activated Cl channels are present in many mammalian sensory cells, including olfactory neurons, photosensitive rods and cones, and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. ANO1 may represent one of the mechanisms for distinguishing intracellular Ca2+ signals. Ca2+ activation of ANO1 is voltage-dependent, and voltage ramps from 80 to +80 mV were used to facilitate use-dependent inactivation of voltage-gated calcium channels.
The study found that the activation of CaCC in small DRG neurons was not affected by the inactivation of VGCC, but was activated by stimulation of pro-inflammatory B2R or protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2). The activation of CaCC by BK in small DRG neurons depends on ER Ca2+release and is blocked by IP3R inhibitors and depletion of ER Ca2+. The study also found that local Ca2+ signals for ANO1 activation are formed within junctional microdomainsbridging the plasma membrane and ER. The study also investigated whether IP3R1 and ANO1 interact, and whether ANO1 is assembled in a microdomain within a lipid raft or an analogous structure and tethered to the juxtaposed ER region by some means.
This study demonstrates that the ANO1 (CaCC) in small nociceptive DRG neurons exists as a part of a signaling complex that also harbors GPCRs responsive to inflammatory mediators. The plasma membrane component of the complex was tethered to the ER; the interactions of the C-terminus and the TM2-3 loop of ANO1 with the IP3R1 contributed to the tethering, which may also involve further scaffolding proteins. The study also found that disruption of the junctional microdomain affected the excitability of DRG neurons, and that the C-terminus or the N-terminus of ANO1 disrupted the native ANO1-IP3R1 coupling and interfered with ANO1 activation. The study suggests that the ANO 1 (CaCC) exists as a partof a signaling complex that is tethered to the ER, and that the plasma membrane component is tethered to theER. The study suggests a mechanism by which lipid raft disruption caused a disturbance to the ANO1 signaling complex, such that the ER Ca2+ release sites were no longer closeenough to the low-Ca2+-affinity ANO1 channels to supply a sufficient amount of Ca2+ to activate the channel.
This document describes the study of ANO1-containing signaling microdomains in nociceptive DRG neurons and their role in maintaining the fidelity of acute inflammatory signals. The structures may serve to ensure the fidelity of acute inflammation signals in nociceptive neurons and may also exist in other cell types. The study used cell culture and transfection, whole cell patch clamp and current clamp recordings, fluorescent imaging, and Immunoprecipitation and Western blotting. The results show that ANO1-rich microdomains create a local environment that is poorly accessible for cytosolic Ca2+ ions that do not originate from the ER, thus protecting ANO1 from any irrelevant Ca2+ source. The study also found that ANO1 is heat sensitive and that a mechanism protecting ANO1from global Ca2+ signals in nociceptors is necessary, as otherwise these neurons would become hypersensitivity to heat every time the intracellular Ca2+ became elevated.
This document describes the experiments conducted to investigate the role of calcium-activated chloride channels in the development of the human olfactory system. The experiments were performed using a combination of antibody and DNA detection techniques. The experiments were conducted at 4C and used a technique called proximity ligation assay (PLA) to detect proteins colocalized within 30 nm of eachother. The lipid raft isolation and GST pull-down assays were also conducted. The results of the experiments were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The results were compared with previous studies and were compared using Student t tests and squared tests.
This document is a summary of the research conducted by the authors in the field of calcium-activated chloride channels, which regulate action potential and synaptic response in Hippocampal Neurons. The authors also discuss the role of calcium-activated Cl-Jin et al. in the development of the nervous system. The document also includes a list of references to the various studies that have been conducted in the field.
This document describes a series of experiments conducted in a rat dorsal root ganglion (RGG) neuron to investigate the activation of CaCC. The experiments include imaging CaCC activation with a halide-sensitive EYFP, immunoprecipitation of ANO1 by an antibody against IP3R1, localization of ANO1 to lipid rafts in DRG neurons, and disruption of ANO1-containing complexes resulting in coupling of CaCC activity to global Ca2+ elevations and overexcitable neurons. The results of these experiments were analyzed using Western blots and Western blots of homogenates of rat DRG lysates. The results of the experiments were presented in the journal Cell Reports.
This document presents a study that analyzed the effects of cholesterol extraction on the coupling of CaCC activity to BK- and PAR-2-induced Ca2+ release and to VGCC-mediated Ca2+ influx. The study showed that the effect of cholesterol extraction on CaCC activity was significantly different from control. The results of the experiments were analyzed using current clamp experiments and showed that the action potentials of control DRG neurons or neurons treated with MCD or CD were significantly different from those treated with MCD. The study also showed that the proposed juxtamembrane arrangements within an ANO1-containing signaling microdomain were more effective than those treated with MCD or with high intracellular Cl.