The lungs of patients with COVID-19 contain infected pneumocytes with abnormal morphology and frequent multinucleation, which is caused by activation of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein at the cell plasma membrane level. Two high-content microscopy-based screenings with more than 3,000 approved drugs were performed to search for inhibitors of spike-driven syncytia. 83 drugs were identified that inhibited spike-mediated cell fusion, several of which belonged to defined pharmacological classes, and one of the most effective molecules was the antihelminthic drug niclosamide. These findings suggest a potential mechanism for COVID-19 disease pathogenesis and support the repurposing of niclosamide for therapy.
The study focuses on the effects of anti-syncytial drugs on the formation of syncytia in cells infected with SARS-CoV-2 strain IC19/2020. The drugs were selected for further studies, with niclosamide,clofazimine and salinomycin being the most effective in cell protection against virus-induced cell death. The study also examines the mechanism by which the selected drugs inhibited syncytia formation. The study found that the presence of spike protein increased the amplitude and frequency of intracellular Ca2+ oscillations in cells expressing spike and during cell fusion. The study also found that the activity of the Ca2+-activated TMEM16 family of chloride channels and Scramblases is required for syncytia formation and that the activity of TMEM16F at the membrane is affected by spike protein. The study also investigated the levels of TMEM16A and TMEM16F in several cell lines and in bronchial human airway epithelial cells and found that TMEM16F was expressed in all cells and that its levels further increased after spike expression.
The activation of TMEM16 proteins by SARS-CoV-2 spike protein is thought to increase the amplitude of spontaneous Ca2+ signals. The downregulation of TMEM16F in syncytia formation is consistent with the previously proposed role of phosphatidylserine exposure in most other physiological cell fusion events. The activation of members of the TMEM16 family by SARS-Co V-2 spike protein might have specific relevance for COVID-19 pathogenesis. The screening for inhibition of syncytia seems to have disclosed a common mechanism for spike-dependent cell fusion.
This document discusses the role of TMEM16F protein in the activation of the coronavirus spike protein and the role of Ca2+ oscillations, chloride channel activity, and Ca2+ release in the activation of spike-mediated cell cell fusion. It also discusses the potential of Niclosamide, a synthetic salicylanilide developed in the 1950s as a molluscicide against snails, to treat COVID-19 patients. The study also provides a rationale for repurposing Niclosamide to treat patients with COVID-19.
This article discusses the use of lung samples from patients who died of COVID-19 at the University Hospital in Trieste, Italy, and cell lines to investigate the effects of TMEM16A, ACE2, V5, mouse-HRP, and SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and nucleocapsid antibodies in a cell fusion inhibition assay. The authors of the article are the authors of the article and are under an exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited 2021. The authors are not affiliated with any of the other authors. The article is published under an exclusive licence.
This document describes the methods used to detect and characterize the coronavirus in human tissues. It describes the methods used for the synchronization inhibition assay, immunofluorescence, histofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and in situ hybridization. The expression plasmid pEC117-Spike-V5 was used to generate the V5 tag and was cloned into the pZac 2.1 backbone under the control of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) IE promoter. The results of these experiments were analyzed using the Harmony software package and the Harmony software package.
This document describes the use of expression vectors and siRNAs to transfected Vero cells and HEK293T cells to test the effects of various drugs and calcium deprivation. The siRNAs were transfected into Vero cells or HEK cells using a standard reverse transfection protocol, and the corresponding siRNAs were reverse transfected into Vero or HEK cells. The experiments were carried out using a Trizol RNA extraction protocol, and the total mRNA was reverse-transcribed using MLV-RT with random hexameric primers. The mRNA was used to quantify the gene expression of TMEM16A, TMEM16B, TMEM16E, TMEM16F, and XKR8. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were carried out on HEK293 cells grown on glass cover slips coated with poly-l-lysine. Whole-cell recordings were performed in an HBS extracellular solution and patch electrodes were made from thick-walled borosilicate glass.
This document describes the methods used to detect SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-induced syncytia in Vero cells and in lung cells infected with SARS-CoV. The study was supported by grants from the British Heart Foundation, the Wellcome Trust, the National Institute for Health Research, and the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The authors of the study are M.G., I.S., E.C., G.N., and D.G., and the authors of the study contributed equally. The article includes an extended data table and two extended data tables.
The Canadian Institute for Syncytia Analysis (CIFA) is a quantitative assay that measures the effect of drugs on the fusion of heterologous cells. The study screened two FDA/EMA-approved drug libraries, The Spectrum Collection and the Prestwick Chemical Library, for their ability to inhibit S-mediated fusion. The results of the CIFA screening were compared with the results of the screening of the two drug libraries. The results of CIFA screening were further analyzed to determine the drug protective ability against SARS-CoV-2. The results of these studies were further analyzed to identify the drugs with the highest z-scores and the drugs with the lowest z-scores.
This document describes the induction of Ca2+ oscillations by coronavirus Spike proteins and upon ACE2 and TMEM16F knockdown. It also describes the expression profiles of the 10 known TMEM16 proteins in different cell types and primary human respiratory cells. It also describes levels of expression of TMEM16A, TMEM16F and ACE2 in different experimental conditions and the effect of individual siRNAs forming the Dharmacon siRNA Pool against TMEM16F. It also discusses the inhibition of current density and phosphatidylserine externalization after treatment with TMEM16F siRNA and indicated drugs.