This document discusses the role of a transmembrane serine protease in the activation of SARS-CoV cell entry. The study was conducted in the laboratory of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology at Loyola University Medical Center and the University of Iowa. The study found that a cell surface complex comprising a primary receptor and a separate endoprotease operates as a portal for activation of SARS- CoV cell entry. A recent report has implicated a particular transmembrane protease/serine subfamily member 11a in the proteolysis of SARS-Co V S proteins. The study used cell-cell fusion assays, plasmid DNAs, and pseudotyped virions and transductions to investigate the role of the trans-membrane proteases in cell entry cofactors and the activation of SARS and other virus entry events.
This document describes the study of the effects of three human TTSPs, TMPRSS2, TMPRSS11a, and TMPRSS11d, on HIV-SARS S-mediated pseudovirus transductions in 293T cells. The three TTSPs were transfected with a constant amount of ACE2C9 plasmid along with various doses of the different TTSPFLAG plasmid DNAs. The effect of TTSPs on HCoV entry was studied by cotransfecting 293T cells with constant amounts of ACE2C10 plasmid along with various dose of the different TTT-FLAG plasmid DNAs and then transduced by HIV-SARSS pseudoviruses. The TTSPs enhanced SARS S-mediated pseudoviral en-try, with peak effects observed after transfection with 0.2 g DNA and then declining at the higher 1-g DNAdose. The most potent TTSP, TMPRSS2 (also known as human airway trypsin or HAT), was found to activate SARS S for plasma membrane-localized fusion using a cell-cell fusion assay.
The effects of the TTSP linked to SARS-CoV cell entry on SARS-mediated membrane fusion were studied. The TTSP was found to be highly active in the cell surface neutral-pH setting and to be able to activate SARS-mediated entry when an endosomal acid-pH-requiring cysteine protease is present. The TTSP also targeted SARS S proteins for cleavage and ACE2 proteins for distinctive proteolysis. ACE2 and TTSP interactions were evaluated using immunofluorescence assays and an IP-IB assay. The results showed that ACE2 and T TSP interactions colocalized on the plasma membrane and that cleavage of ACE2 is a result of these interactions.
This document discusses the role of TTSPs in the activation of SARS-CoV cell entry and the role of ACE2, the SARS-CoV receptor, in this process. The study evaluated several TTSPs for activation of S protein entry into 293T cells and found that TMPRSS2, a member of the Hepsin/TMPRSS subfamily, was potent in enhancing S-mediated entry, more so than TMPR11a or TMPR11d (HAT). The study also found that TMPRSS1 converted ACE2 from an 130-kDa to an 115-kDa form, a change that may come from deglycosylation or a failure to initially glycosylate the six predicted N-glycan sites in the ACE2 ectodomain. The study also showed that the degradation of ACE2 by TMPRSS2 is a significant mechanism in the pathogenesis of SARS-Co V and the importance of ACE2 regulation in lung homeostasis.
The SARS-CoV- susceptible cell may be determined by the tendency of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 to congregate together. Co-IP analyses supported the view of conven-ing ACE2 and TMPCRS2 ligands, and showed that the ACE2-TMPRSS2 complexes operating to strengthen virus entry might remain throughout the infection cycle. The ACE2-TMCRSS2 complexes operating in concert with each other might also have effects on the S pro-teins synthesized and incorporated into infective progeny. The hypothesis is that certain in vivo infections require TTSPs, and that TTSPs are crucial in vivo entry cofactors because they activate S at cell surfaces and support rapid virus dissemination via syncytia. TTSPs may also provide a certain immediacy of S activation that can quickly tether incoming viruses to cells via their S proteinmembrane fusion domains. The evolution and adaptation for particular receptors may have much to do with associated activating proteolytic enzymes.
This document is a collection of papers that discuss the role of angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) in the pathogenesis of SARS coronavirus-induced lung injury. It is also a collection of studies that have linked the SARS-CoV cell entry to the activation of a membrane-bound serine protease matriptase on the cell surface.