The activity of the esterase (Cbotu_EstA) from Clostridium botulinum on the polyester poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) was improved by concomitant engineering of two different domains. The zinc-binding domain present in Cbotu_Esta was subjected to site-directed mutagenesis, and a specific domain consisting of 71 amino acids at the N-terminus of the enzyme was deleted. The combination of substitution of residues present in the zinc-binding domain (e.g. S199A) synergistically increased the activity of the enzyme on PET seven fold when combined to the truncation of 71 amino acids only. The kinetic parameters of the Cbotu_ EstA variants indicated a clear shift of activity from water soluble to insoluble polymeric substrates. The results show that the interaction with non-natural polymeric substrates provides targets for enzyme engineering.
This document proposes a novel strategy to tune the activity of the esterase Cbotu_EstA from small water soluble esters to bulky water insolubly polyesters. The combination of the substitution of Trp-129, Ser-199 and Trp-274 in the zinc-binding domain and the truncation of the N-terminal extra domain led to a synergistic improvement of enzyme activity on the bulky substrate polyethylene terephthalate (PET). The results of the study show that the combination of the substitution and the truncation of N-terminal domain led to up to seven fold improved activity of the enzyme on PET. The results of this study suggest that detailed analysis of the 3D structure of enzymes considering not only the active site architecture seems to be the key to improve activity on non-natural polymeric substrates such as the man-made polyester PET.
This document describes the synthesis of synthetic biodegradable polymers using bacterial cutinases. The first step of PCR was performed by 21 cycles, and the second step was performed by DpnI treatment at 37 C for 2 h. The products were chemically transformed into E. coli XL-10 competent cells and the correct plasmids were confirmed by commercial Sanger sequencing. The correct plasmids were chemically transformed into e. coli BL21-Gold(DE3) for expression. The first step was protein purification and analysis, followed by standard esterase assay and thermal stability measurements. The second step was hydrolysis of polyethylene terephthalate films. The third step was the measurement of enzyme activity and thermal stability.
This document is a collaboration between the University of Tubingen, the University of Innsbruck, the University of Vienna, the University of Graz, the University of Munich, the University of Tubinge, the University of Salzburg, the University of Tirol, the University of Austria, the University of Linz, the University of St. Gallen, the University of Freiburg, the University of Regensburg, the University of Tübingen, the University of Wien, the University of Darmstadt, the University of Marburg, the University of Schladming, the University of Tyrol, the University of Trieste, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Kortary, the University of Munster, the University of Freiberg, the University of Österreich, the University of Lower Austria, the University and the University of Vienna. The authors acknowledge the European Union Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development and demonstration, the European Union Horizon 2020 research and innovation program, and the Austrian Research Promotion Agency FFG. The authors have no competing interests.