This document is a preprint from the University of Amsterdam's UvA-DARE (Digital Academic Repository). It discusses the role of phosphatidylserine (PS) in myoblast differentiation in mouse embryos and established muscle cell lines C2C12 and H9C2 in vitro. The study focuses on the transient expression of PS at the cell surface, which is part of normal physiology of skeletal muscle development and to mediate myotube formation. The study also compares maturation-induced and apoptosis-associated PS exposure. The study concludes that different mechanisms regulate PSexposure during apoptosis and muscle cell differentiation, and that surface exposed PS plays a crucial role in the process of myotube formation, and that surface-exposed PS plays a crucial part in the process ofmyotube formation.
This document describes the study of the effects of human recombinant annexin V on skeletal muscle cell development in mouse embryos. The study used C2C12 and H9C2 cells grown in 96-well plates and used rabbit-derived antibodies against active caspase 3 and thesarcomeric protein titin. The study also used Texas-Red-conjugatedswine anti-rabbit Ig or rabbit anti-mouse Ig as secondary antibodies. The results of the study were analyzed using MS Excel 98 and the Mann-Whitney test. The results showed that annexin V was able to inhibit the formation of myotubes in areas of skeletal muscle differentiation in mouse embryos.
The study focuses on the effects of PS exposure on myoblast differentiation and fusion. The study found that viable muscle cells transiently expose PS in a developmentally regulated manner, and that annexin V-uo is a marker that can be used to identify myoblasts. The study also found that annexin V labeling is related to the phase of myoblast differentiation, and that the temporal window of annexin Vlabeling is related to the molecularorganization at the sarcomeric level. The study also investigated the possible causal relationship between PSexposure and myoblast fusion, and found that annexinV can inhibit the formation of myotubes in differentiating cells.
The study focuses on the effect of recombinant human annexin V (AnxV) on myotube formation in differentiating C2C12 and H9C2 muscle cell cultures. The study found that AnxV significantly reduces the number of myotubes compared with control and M1212 incubations, while for H9C2 this inhibitory effect is less pronounced. The study also found that PS exposure during myoblast differentiation was not significantly different between myoblast differentiation in DM or in DM plus M1212, but resulted in significantly fewer myotubes. The study also investigated whether annexin V binding to differentiating myoblasts is unrelated to caspase activity.
This study presents data showing that, during embryology, morphologically viable myoblasts transiently bind annexin V and express PS at particular stages of development, but are not in contact with phagocytes. The nature of the annexin V-uo vesicles is not yet known, but they resemble the cytoplasmic vesicles found in the gap junction-like prefusioncomplex and the plasma membrane vesicles found during the phase of plasma membranebreakdown. Annexin V was found to almostexclusively label mononucleated cells in contact with other mononucleated cells or small myotubes containing a few nuclei. The localization of PS in the inner plasma membrane leaet in most cells is maintained by an aminophospholipid translocase, and PS exposure during myogenesis is not related to the molecular cascade of apoptosis. PS exposure during muscle development is likely regulated via factors upstream of the mitochondria.
The role of PS in myotube formation is still unclear, but data from fusion inhibition experiments indicate that PS is of physiological importance. PS is a membrane component that is involved in phagocyte recognition of apoptotic cells and phagocytosis, and it is likely that PS has an analogous function in phagocytosis and myotube formation. PS is transiently exposed by differentiating muscle cells in the developing heart, and it may be implicated in homotypic cell-cell interactions by interacting with a receptor. PS exposure during myoblast differentiation can also mediate cell signaling in an indirect manner via catalyzing the conversion of prothrombin into thrombin. Taken together, these studies strongly indicate a physiological role of cell surfaceexposure of PS in myoblast differentiation.
This document is a collection of studies on various topics related to myoblast fusion, myobril assembly, and myogenic cell lineages. It is divided into sections: myoblasts, myoblasts, and myobrils. The first section is a review of the current state of myoblast fusion research. The second section is a review on the role of myoblasts in the development of the human heart. The third section is a review the role of myogenic cell lineages in the development of human hearts. The fourth section is a review and review of the studies on the regulation of endothelialmonocyte-activating polypeptide II release by apoptosis.