This article discusses the use of a new esterase from Thermobifida halotolerans (Thh_Est) to hydrolyze polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polylactic acid (PLA). Thh_Est is a member of the serine hydrolases superfamily containing the -GxSxG- motif with 8587% homology to an esterase from ThermoBifida. The authors demonstrate that Thh_Est can efficiently hydrolyze PET and PLA thereby considerably increasing surface hydrophilicity of these materials. The article also describes the cloning of Thh_est, DNA sequencing, alignment of related proteins, and the expression and purification of Thh_Est.
This document describes the cloning, sequence analysis and heterologous expression in E. coli of an esterase from Thermobifida halotolerans. The enzyme was identified as a member of the serine hydrolases superfamily containing the GxSxG- motif in which the catalytic Ser131 is embedded. The gene coding for Thh_Est was cloned through the NdeI/HindIII restriction sites into pET26b(+) for expression without the pelB leader sequence. The recombinant protein harboring a C-terminal hexahistidine tag (29.8 kDa) was expressed in E. coli BL21-Gold(DE3) at 20 C by addition of 0.05 mM IPTG. The hydrolysis products were analyzed by using HPLC-UV and water contact angles.
The hydrolysis of PET films was similar to that of cutinases from the same genus, with the release of MHET and TA being comparable. The hydrolyzing of PET films was also compared to previous reports, with the amount of MHET and BA released being comparable. The degree of hydrophilicity achieved by hydrolyzing PET and PLA films was significantly higher than that of PET. The results of this study suggest that the new esterase Thermobifida Thh_Est has a potential for both PET and PLA surface hydrolysis, similar to cutinases from same genus. This is unexpected as cutinases were previously believed to be superior to esterases in terms of polyester hydrolysis.
This is a list of references for the article ""Enzymatic and chemical hydrolysis of poly(ethylene terephthalate) fabrics"". The authors of the article are M.D. Guebitz, M.E., and J.E. Heumann. The article discusses the hydrolytic properties of poly(ethylene Terephthalate) and poly(ethylene TeRe) fibers, as well as the hydrolytic activity of cutinases on these materials. The authors also discuss the characterization of a new cutinase from Thermobifida Alba regarding PET-surface hydrolysis. The article also includes an appendix with the primary sequence of the enzymes involved.