This article discusses the use of anthelmintics niclosamide and nitazoxanide as potent TMEM16A antagonists that block airway smoothmuscle depolarization and contraction. The authors screened a library of 580,000 compounds and identified the anthelmintic niclosamide and related compounds as potent TMEM 16A antagonists. The authors also discuss the potential of these drugs for treating cancer and infectious disease. The authors also describe the cell line generation and high-throughput screen of a cell line expressing human TMEM16A and the high-throughput screen.
The document describes the use of a cell line to screen for TMEM16A antagonists in the Human Medicinal Chemistry (HTS) program. The cell line was transfected with linearized hTMEM16A(ABC) DNA constructs and the stable pool was single cell seeded in 96 well plates. The YFP function assay was performed on duplicate plates and clones producing higher changes in uorescence from the YFP assay were chosen for further expansion to form a stable cell line. The results of the eYFP assay were analyzed using a FlipR-Tetra and the 22 dose response dilutions were also tested in Calciumux assays to eliminate compounds that inhibit ionomycin-triggered calcium signaling. The TMEM16A HEK293T eYFP (H149Q, I153L) stable cellline for medicinal chemistry support was generated by transfecting 10 gof linearized hTME16A(ABC ) DNA constructs into HEK293T e YFP (H149 Q, I153L ) stable cells.
The document describes the methods used to measure compound activity in HEK293T cells stably expressing hTMEM16A and the halide-sensitive YFP. The Q-Patch Electrophysiology forMeasuring Compound Effects onTMEM16 was conducted on HEK293 cells stably expressing the TMEM16A variant, the HEK293 TMEM16A stable cell line, and the Col-205 cells. The results were compared to previous studies on Niclosamide and Related TMEM16A Antagonists performed by ChanTest. The IonWorks Barracuda Electrophysiology studies on TMEM16A compounds and measuring compound effects on CFTR chloride currents were conducted using the Population Patch Clamp (PPC) planar electrode. The recordings were performed using the patch clamp amplier and included a full dose-response of Benzbromarone as a positive control. The data were collected using the IonWorks Barracuda system operation software.
The study focuses on the evaluation of compound eects in blocking pro-contractile depolarization of human bronchial smooth muscle cells. The study also includes the measurement of bronchodilation of mouse tracheas by wire myograph using a series of three Danish Myograph Technologies (DMT)620M Multi Wire Myograph Systems instruments. The instruments were interfaced with PowerLab 4/35 or PowerLab8/35 data acquisition systems and a computer running DMTDevice Enabler and LabChart Pro v8. The study also covers the use of mice for wire myograph studies and the use of cytokines on compound efcacy in relaxing mouse tracheas.
This document describes the study of bronchodilator effects on bronchial epithelial cells using rat trachea rings and human bronchial epithelial cells grown on 6.5 mm permeable supports. The study was conducted by Biopta and used the Frontiers in Pharmacology | www.frontiersin.org7February 2019 | Volume 10 | Article 51 Miner et al. to determine the effects of Niclosamide and related TMEM16A antagonists on bronchodilation. The study also included the evaluation of TMEM16A expression in airway smooth muscle cells and the bronchial epithelial epithelium using RNA sequencing and the generation of human bronchial epithelial ALI cultures and the effects of Th2 cytokines.
This document describes the methods used to identify novel inhibitors of the CaCC TMEM16A. The authors generated a stable cell line co-expressing the ABC splice variant of human TMEM16A along with the halide-sensitive YFP mutant [H148Q,I152L]referred to as eYFP. The authors then screened a library of 580,000 compounds at a 5 Mnal concentration in the TMEM16A halide-sensitive Y FP assay. A total of 1,445 primary hits were identified using a hit cut-o of POC < 72.6%, whichreects compounds providing > 27.4% inhibition. A total of 145 hits with an IC50 < 5 M were identified as highly potent, nanomolar inhibitors of TMEM16A, and Nitazoxanide and tizoxanide were identified as additional inhibitors of TMEM 16A.
This document discusses the development of a new class of small molecule antagonists, Niclosamide and related compounds, for the inhibition of TMEM16A calcium-activated chloride currents. The authors identified the structure and activity of additional niclosamide-related compounds and identified the approved drug nitazoxanide as a new TMEM16A antagonist. The direct comparison of niclosamide with eight distinct TMEM16A benchmark antagonists revealed that niclosamide with an IC50 of 132 nM in the halide-sensitive YFP assay is 10200 times more potent than other antagonists. The results suggest that niclosamide and related compound may use a unique mechanism for channel block. The authors also conducted additional experiments to characterize their impact on chloride currents and eects in blocking airway smooth muscle cell depolarization and contraction of airways.
Niclosamide, nitazoxanide, and related compounds were found to be potent inhibitors of the TMEM16A Ca2+-activated Cl current. While they only partially inhibited the iodide/eYFPresponse, they provided nearly complete inhibition of the chloride current. This is in stark contrast to the results from the TMEM16a/eYFP assay using iodide as the permeant anion, where the maximal percent inhibition by niclosamide of 62.4 12.0 was considerably less than that of CaCCinh-A01 which provided 102.1 9.5. Niclosamide, however, showed signicantly less activity by QPatch electrophysiology with an average IC50 of 2.37 2.11 M. The two TMEM16A assays may provide an explanation for the difference in activity, as the automatedQPatch electrophysiology assay has only about 1 min pre-incubation time following each compound addition in the cumulative concentration response analyses.
The authors found that 1PBC and niclosamide caused a paradoxical increase in the inward current at 100 mV while robustly inhibiting the outward current in whole cell patch clamp electrophysiology studies. The authors suggest that the paradoxical increase in the outward current is not physiologically relevant, but instead an artifact of the whole cell patch clamp recording conditions that often involve huge depolarization steps. The authors also evaluated their ecacy in modulating airway smoothmuscle depolarization and contraction following treatment with pro-contractiles. The authors developed a membrane potential assay using primary human ASM cells and found that niclosamide and related compounds blocked histamine depolarization and contraction of airway smooth muscle cells. The authors also tested antagonists for relaxation of human bronchial rings pre-contracted with carbachol or histamine and found that nicloamide provided the most potent bronchodilation.
Niclosamide and related compounds are potent inhibitors of TMEM16A conductivity that block histamine depolarization of human airway smooth muscle cells and relax mouse trachea rings pre-contracted with carbachol. Niclosamide and Related analogs provided sub-M bronchodilation and improved potency over the two TMEM16A benchmark antagonists run in parallel. Niclosamide also provided robust relaxation of human bronchial rings pre-contracting with carbachol, and the lipophilic TMEM16A antagonists had a slow onset of action in relaxing human bronchial rings pre. The onset and duration of bronchodilation are two additional variables to explore when developing new asthma therapies. The hydrophilic -agonist isoproterenol acts quickly to relax human bronchial rings while the lipophilic TMEM 16A antagonists have a slow onset ofaction.
The study aims to investigate the effectiveness of TMEM16A antagonists as an add-on therapy for patients with asthma and COPD. The study found that TMEM16A antagonist fully relax airways irrespective of the level of carbachol precontraction, and that the antagonist isoproterenol only partially relaxes maximally precontracted airways. The study also found that TMEM 16A antagonists provide a new mechanism for robust relaxation of airway smooth muscle, even when they encounter high levels of contractants or are exposed to inammatory conditions that limit -agonist action. The study also evaluated TMEM16A expression in human airway smooth muscle cells and bronchial epithelial cells, and found that TMEM15A expression was significantly upregulated after Th2 cytokines treatment of bronchial epithelial cells. The study also showed that TMEM16a expression was also increased at the protein level and that the expression of the Muc5ACmucin was also increased after treatment with Th2 cytokines.
This document discusses the effects of TMEM16A antagonists on the modulation of native calcium-activated chloride currents in cancer cells. It also discusses the identification of Niclosamide and nitazoxanide as TMEM16A antagonist drugs. Niclosamide is a promising anticancer agent that inhibits proliferation of colon cancer cell lines and has been found to downregulate Wnt signaling and elicit colorectal antitumorresponses. The pharmacology of niclosamide and related compounds in providing potent but partial block of the iodide eYFP response yet full block of the TMEM16A chloride current appears most similar to the benchmark antagonists 1PBC and NTTP. The activity of 17 niclosamide analogs and over 300 niclosamide analog is described, and the partial block of the iodine eYFP response is characteristic of this chemotype. Niclosamide and its metabolic product tizoxanide also blocked TMEM16A with low single digit M potency and showed a similar pharmacology to niclosamide in the eYFP and ephys assays.
The authors suggest that tizoxanide and other compounds may share a mechanism as pore blockers and may interact with the same charged residues, Arg 511 and Lys 599, which are important for NTTP and 1PBC inhibition of TMEM16A. The mechanism of action for the benchmark TMEM16A antagonists, CaCCinh-A01, dichlorophen and MONNA, is unknown, but it is likely they have dierent site/s of action. The mechanism of Action for the benchmark TEM16A antagonists, CACCinh- A01, dichloro Phen and MONNA, remains unknown. The mechanism of effect for the benchmark TME16A antagonists,caCCinh-a01, dichloropheno and MONNA, remain unknown, but it seems likely they have diere site/s of effect. The authors also discuss the expression of TMEM16a in bronchial epithelial cells, airway smooth muscle cells, and airway smooth muscle cells. They demonstrate that TMEM16a antagonists hyperpolarize human airway smooth muscle cells and reverse the depolarization induced by contractants.
The study focuses on the use of Niclosamide and related TMEM16A antagonists to relax the airways of mice with asthma and COPD. The study found that the TMEM16A antagonist, Niclosamide, was able to fully relax the airways, while the -agonist,isoproterenol, only showed partial bronchodilation. The study also found that Niclosamide and other TMEM16A inhibitors can operate with -agonists, including under situations of trichophylaxis or use-dependent desensitization. The study also explored whether Niclosamide and similar compounds attenuate allergen-challenging and sensitized airways, and further pre-clinical studies would provide deeper insights into the utility of TMEM16A antagonism for these disorders. The study also showed that TMEM16A is strongly upregulated by Th2 cytokines in the bronchial epithelium, and is also expressed on the apical surface of goblet cells. The study also demonstrated that TMEM16a expression peaks quickly, 24 hours after IL-4 treatment, and that its inhibition with an antagonist has been reported to reduce IL-13 induced Muc5AC production and goblet cell hyperplasia.