This article discusses the use of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) hydrolases and enzymes for improved plastic degradation in the context of plastic pollution. The current approach to reduce PET waste is cost-prohibitive and could potentially produce toxic secondary pollutants. The use of PET is a non-biodegradable environmentalpollutant and is a global threat to ecosystems, with the current generation reaching as much as 400 metric tons per year. The use of plastic is considered a vital component of the textile, automotive, manufacturing, and packaging industries, and is considered a geological marker of the Anthropocene era. The use of plastics and associated wastes with poor disposal threatens wide-ranging environments of natural terrestrial, freshwater, and marine habitats, and the accumulation of plastic waste in the natural environment is projected to exceed 34 billion metric tons by 2050. The review focuses on the discovery of several PET hydrolases and their contribution to alleviating environmental microplastics, and provides information on the molecular and degradation mechanisms of PET.
The future of plastic recycling should emphasize the circular economy approach, which integrates enzymatic processing to protect the environment for many years to come. The circular economy will be crucial to global efforts, particularly in combating climate change and lowering the cost of PET production while requiring less water. The persistence of PET waste in terrestrial and marine environments could harm or kill some organisms, as only a very low portion of this plastic is recycled to recover its original forms. Scientific research on PET should be geared toward sustainability by bioprospecting or developing more hydrolases that can cleave the esterlinkages in the amorphous domain of PET to enable the bioremediation of PET. The biological method to deal with PET wastes has emerged as a promising and eco-friendlier solution to meet the stringent environmental quality goals.
This review article highlights the recent discovery of newly isolated enzymes from bacteria or fungi that could degrade polyethylene terephthalate (PET). The article discusses the importance of PET hydrolases in biocatalytic recycling of plastic and the potential for enzymatic recycling to alleviate its abundance in the environment. The article also discusses the common features of various types of PET hydrolase, including a solvent-accessible narrow active site, an active cleft with aromatic macro-molecules, and an affinity for hydrophobic materials. The article also provides an overview of recently reported studies on PET hydrolases, including the enzyme cutinase.
Cutinases are enzymes that catalyze the breaking of ester bonds of cutin and have been isolated from plant pathogens and phytopathogenic microorganisms. Cutinases are known to degrade synthetic polyesters, polybutylene succinate, poly-caprolactone, polystyrene, polyethylene furanoate, and long-chain triacylglycerol or waxes. Cutinases have distinctive characteristics when compared to lipases, including the presence of an oxyanion hole, which stabilizes anionic substrate complexes, and the ability to hydrolyze both soluble esters and insoluble triglycerides. Cutinases prefer neutral or alkaline pH environments, and IsPETase is a well-known PET hydrolase that hydrolyzes PET at low temperatures. IsPETase has a broader open active-site architecture and a broader substrate binding cleft compared to cutinase.
The document discusses the enzyme IsPETase, which is a potential candidate for bio-based PET degradation strategies. The enzyme has a broad active site, which increases its specificity for bulky substrates such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and two disulde bonds in its active site that could affect its thermal stability. The document also discusses the role of two enzymes, PETase and MHETase, in breaking down PET into simple and non-harmful monomer. The two enzymes work in synergy to break down PET into TPA and EG monomer, which are used as food sources by the bacterium. The document also mentions the role of lipases, which are another class of hydrolases that have been explored for the enzymatic hydrolysis of PET due to their ability to degrade ester bonds.
The accumulation of plastics in the environment raises serious concerns about their environmental impact, and the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated this issue. Conventional methods of disposing of plastic wastes have not been successful in reducing the amount of plastic waste in the environment. The recently isolated cutinase-like enzyme, or PETase from I. sakaiensis, is a promising candidate for sustainable biodegradation strategies to reduce plastic contaminants in the environment.
This document discusses the challenges of plastic degradation and the need for bio-based and biodegradable alternatives to remove polyethylene terephthalate (PET) from the environment. The authors suggest that the use of enzymes that hydrolyze PET could be used to treat plastic- and microplastic-contaminated environments. The authors also discuss the challenges of tailoring existing enzymes to increase plastic degradation and the potential for new enzymes to be engineered to meet industrial needs. The authors conclude that breakthrough strategies in enzyme tailoring for enhancing PET biodegradation would contribute to the plastic recycling industry while ensuring a better and plastic-contaminant-free future.
This is a list of selected scientific papers that have been published in the journal ""Environmental Science and Technology"", ""The Future of Plastics Recycling,"" ""The Future Of Plastic Recycling,"" and ""The Futureof Plastic Recycling," ""The Biodegradation and Bioconversion of polyethylene terephthalate,"" " "The Future of Plastic Recycling," and ""Plastics and Human Health: An Overview on Potential Effects of Microplastics and Additives of Concern on Human Health.""
This is a list of papers that discuss the use of enzymes to degrade plastic waste. The list includes reviews of the impact of chemical recycling and energy recovery on plastic waste, as well as reviews of the enzymes involved in the degradation of plastic waste. The lists also include reviews of the impact and applications of various methods of plastic recycling, as well as a review of the role of the enzyme in the degradation of poly (ethylene terephthalate). The list also includes a list of references to the various papers that discuss the role of enzymes in the degradation of plastics.
This is a list of articles on various topics related to the characterization and applications of cutinases. The topics include characterization and applications of bacterial cutinases, characterization and engineering of a two-enzyme system for plastics depolymerization, characterization and engineering the mechanism of a PET depolymerization enzyme, and the structure and functional studies of various cutinases.
This is a list of articles on various topics related to the biodegradation of polyethylene terephthalate. The topics include screening of commercial enzymes for poly(ethylene terephthalate)(PET) hydrolysis and synergy studies on different substrate sources, structural and functional characterization of polyethylene tere phthalate hydrolase from Ideonella sakaiensis, structure, biochemicalcharacterization and analysis of the pleomorphism of carboxylesterase Cest-2923 from Lactobacillus plantarum, carbohydrate degradation of polyethylene tere phthalates, plastic waste management under the COVID-19 pandemic, plastic waste release caused by COVID-19 and its fate in the global ocean, plastic waste release and its fate inthe global ocean, plastic recycling, plastic waste management, and the production, use, and fate of synthetic polymers.